[Wiki] [Windows 11] Opt out of Windows Insiders (#101)
Microsoft-community/Community-website: wiki/leave-insiders.md

> # Opting out of Windows Insider updates (Windows 11)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Opting out of Windows 11 Insider updates
```

> If your machine is enrolled into the Windows Insider Program and you wish to stop receiving Insider updates, follow the steps below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your machine is enrolled into the Windows Insider Program and you wish to stop receiving Insider updates, follow the steps below.
```

## Determine your current channel

> Open Settings, go to Windows Updates and Windows Insider Program

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open Settings, go to the **Windows Updates** category and then click **Windows Insider Program**.
```

![](img/leave-insiders/wu-page.png)

> There, look to the right side of "Choose your Insider settings" to determine your Insider channel, it can be Dev, Beta or Release Preview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once there, look to the right side of *"Choose your Insider settings"* to see your Insider channel, It can be Dev, Beta or Release Preview.
```

![](img/leave-insiders/wu-insiders-channel.png)

## For Beta/Release Preview

> If you found your channel to be Beta or Release Preview, opting out of Insider updates should be as easy as turning on a switch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you found your channel wass Beta or Release Preview, opting out of Insider updates should be as easy as turning on a switch.
```

> Open the "Stop getting preview builds" section and turn on "Unenroll this device when the next version of Windows releases"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the **Stop getting preview builds** section and turn on *"Unenroll this device when the next version of Windows releases"*.
```

![](img/leave-insiders/wu-insiders-stop.png)

Restart your PC and you should be opted out.

## For Dev

> If you have the Dev channel, you would want to pay attention to the build number, as it will affect whether you can leave Insiders without a clean install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are in Dev channel, you need to pay attention to the build number, as it will affect whether you can leave Insiders without a clean install.
```

### Determine your current build

> Press the "Windows" and "R" key simultaneously on the keyboard and type "winver" (without quotes) and press Enter, an "About Windows" window will appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Press the "Windows" and "R" key simultaneously on the keyboard, type `winver` and press Enter, an "About Windows" window will appear.
```

![](img/leave-insiders/winver.png)

> Look closely to the "OS Build" field, this field will tell you which build you have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look closely at the "OS Build" field, this field will tell you which build you have.
```

### If the build is 22000.xxx

> 1. On the Windows Insider Program page in Settings, open the "Choose your Insider settings" section and choose "Beta channel".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the Windows Insider Program page in Settings, open the "Choose your Insider settings" section and choose **Beta channel**.
```

   ![](img/leave-insiders/wu-change-channel.png)

2. Restart your PC and now you should be in the Beta channel. Follow the Beta/Release Preview instructions to opt out of Insiders.

### If the build is higher than 22000.xxx

> 1. Choose "System" on the left side of the Settings app and open "Recovery"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose **System** on the left side of the Settings app and open **Recovery**.
```

    ![](img/leave-insiders/system-page.png)

2. Click on "Go back" in the Recovery page.

   ![](img/leave-insiders/system-go-back.png)

>    **NOTE:** If the Go back option is disabled, a clean install is required, see [Installing Windows 10](installing_windows_10.md) for instructions to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>   **NOTE:** If the **Go back** option is disabled, a clean install is required, see [Installing Windows 10](installing_windows_10.md) for instructions to do so.
```

> 3. Follow the instructions on screen to go back to a previous build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Follow the instructions on-screen to go back to a previous build.
```

4. Check your build again.

>    If winver reports 22000.xxx, follow the instructions for 22000.xxx above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If `winver` reports a build number starting with `22000`, follow the instructions for 22000.xxx above.
```
